docs/index.md, before:

## COMP 190 Course Information
- Fall Semester 2023
  - Thurs 1:30-2:45, Tome 118
- [Syllabus & Course Information](syllabus.pdf)
- Prof. Goble's Office Hours:
    * Monday/Wednesday 1:00pm - 2:30pm
    * Tuesday/Thursday 10:00am - 11:30am
    * If these times do not work with your schedule, please email me and we can set up a time
- [Course Moodle](https://lms.dickinson.edu/course/view.php?id=53528)
<!-- Update the Teams link -->
<!--- [Microsoft Team](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3acAO_g5e-OUxsFORBOh7SCgymvKHvJlBwEqVojFzw1vE1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=bd18bcf6-1b9a-4c91-84f6-ff062c039a8a&tenantId=6232b055-76b9-4c13-9b88-b562ae7db6fb) -->
- [Microsoft Team][404]

## COMP 190 Outline
### The content of this outline is subject to change, if it does you will be notified via Teams

Date            | Class Information                                                              | Homework             | Reading
----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|--------------
                | **Introduction to Linux**                                                      |                      |
Thurs 08/31/23      | C01 - Operating Systems, Docker and Linux               [ [Slides][s01] ]      | [HW01][hw01]         | [What is open source?](https://opensource.com/resources/what-open-source)
Thurs 09/07/23      | C02 - Linux Command Line Interface (CLI)                [ [Slides][s02] ]      | [HW02][hw02]         | [Everything You Should Know About Proprietary Software](https://www.brainspire.com/blog/what-you-should-know-about-proprietary-software-brainspire)
Thurs 09/14/23      | C03 - Linux Filters, Scripts and Pipes                  [ [Slides][s03] ]      | [HW03][hw03]         | [The False Debate Between Open and Closed in Tech](https://www.theverge.com/2016/3/16/11242266/walt-mossberg-open-vs-closed-software-apple-os-x-google-android)
Thurs 09/21/23      | C04 - Installing Software                               [ [Slides][s04] ]      | [HW04][hw04]         | [The Problem With Diversity in Computing](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2019/06/tech-computers-are-bigger-problem-diversity/592456/)
Thurs 09/28/23      | C05 - Docker: Dockerfiles and Images                    [ [Slides][s05] ]      | [HW05][hw05]         | [We Teach A.I. Systems Everything, Including Our Biases](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1152821)
                | **Open Source Projects and Structures**                                        |                      |
Thurs 10/05/23      | C06 - Intellectual Property and Software Licensing      [ [Slides][s06] ]      | [HW06][hw06]         | [Dealing With Bias in Artificial Intelligence](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1152822)
Thurs 10/12/23      | C07 - FOSS Project Structures                           [ [Slides][s07] ]      | [HW07][hw07]         | [Can we Make Our Robots Less Biased Than We Are?](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1176432)
                | *Spring Break*                                                                 |                      |
Thurs 10/19/23      | To Be Determined                                                               |                      |
Thurs 10/26/23      | C08 - FarmData2 & Issue Trackers (WiD)                  [ [Slides][s08] ]      | [HW08][hw08]         | [Mastodon issues 30-day ultimatum to Trump's social network](https://techcrunch.com/2021/10/29/mastodon-issues-30-day-ultimatum-to-trumps-social-network-over-misuse-of-its-code/)
                | **Open Source Tools and Collaboration**                                        |                      |
Thurs 11/02/23      | C09 - Communities and Collaboration                     [ [Slides][s09] ]      | [HW09][hw09]         | [Commercial Images Generating AI Raises Thorny Legal Issues](https://techcrunch.com/2022/07/22/commercial-image-generating-ai-raises-all-sorts-of-thorny-legal-issues/)
Thurs 11/09/23      | C10 - Upstreaming Contributions                         [ [Slides][s10] ]      | [HW10][hw10]         | [Risks posed by AI are real](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2022/aug/07/ai-eu-moves-to-beat-the-algorithms-that-ruin-lives)
Thurs 11/16/23      | C11 - Staying Synchronized                              [ [Slides][s11] ]      | [HW11][hw11]         | [Disinformation Researchers Raise Alarms about A.I. Chatbots](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1182164)
Thurs 11/23/23      | Thanksgiving - No class                                                        |                      | 
Thurs 11/30/23      | C12 - Resolving Merge Conflicts                         [ [Slides][s12] ]      | [HW12][hw12]         | 
                | **Navigating Code**                                                            |                      |
Thurs 12/07/23      | C13 - Navigating Code                                   [ [Slides][s13] ]      | [HW13][hw13]         |
|                                                                                                |                      |
Thurs 12/14/23    | **2:00pm Final Exam Slot**<br> No Exam - All work must be complete.            |                      |


[s01]: materials/01-S-OSandLinux.pptx
[hw01]: materials/01-A-OSandLinux.docx
[s02]: materials/02-S-LinuxCLI.pptx
[hw02]: materials/02-A-LinuxCLI.docx
[s03]: materials/03-S-FiltersScriptsPipes.pptx
[hw03]: materials/03-A-FiltersScriptsPipes.docx
[s04]: materials/04-S-InstallingSoftware.pptx
[hw04]: materials/04-A-InstallingSoftware.docx
[s05]: materials/05-S-Docker.pptx
[hw05]: materials/05-A-Docker.docx
[s06]: materials/06-S-LicensingFOSS.pptx
[hw06]: materials/06-A-LicensingFOSS.docx
[s07]: materials/07-S-ProjectStructures.pptx
[hw07]: materials/07-A-ProjectStructures.docx
[s08]: materials/08-S-IssueTracker.pptx
[hw08]: materials/08-A-IssueTracker.docx

[s09]: materials/09-S-CommunityAndCollaboration.pptx
[hw09]: materials/09-A-CommunityAndCollaboration.docx
[s10]: materials/10-S-WorkingLocallyAndUpstreaming.pptx
[hw10]: materials/10-A-WorkingLocallyAndUpstreaming.docx
[s11]: materials/11-S-StayingSynchronized.pptx
[hw11]: materials/11-A-StayingSynchronized.docx
[s12]: materials/12-S-MergeConflicts.pptx
[hw12]: materials/12-A-MergeConflicts.docx
[s13]: materials/13-S-NavigatingCode.pptx
[hw13]: materials/13-A-NavigatingCode.docx

[404]: 404.md

<!--
<!--[Why the Constitution Can Protect Passwords But Not Fingerprint Scans](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1152825) -->
<!--[How the Supreme Court Could Rewrite the Rules for DNA Searches](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1152826) -->
<!---->
---

![Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/88x31.png "Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License") All textual materials used in this course are licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/)

![GPL V3 or Later](https://www.gnu.org/graphics/gplv3-or-later-sm.png "GPL V3 or later") All executable code used in this course is licensed under the [GNU General Public License Version 3 or later](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt)

Commit message:

adds footnote about Grant's work

docs/index.md, after:

## COMP 190 Course Information
- Fall Semester 2023
  - Thurs 1:30-2:45, Tome 118
- [Syllabus & Course Information](syllabus.pdf)
- Prof. Goble's Office Hours:
    * Monday/Wednesday 1:00pm - 2:30pm
    * Tuesday/Thursday 10:00am - 11:30am
    * If these times do not work with your schedule, please email me and we can set up a time
- [Course Moodle](https://lms.dickinson.edu/course/view.php?id=53528)
<!-- Update the Teams link -->
<!--- [Microsoft Team](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3acAO_g5e-OUxsFORBOh7SCgymvKHvJlBwEqVojFzw1vE1%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=bd18bcf6-1b9a-4c91-84f6-ff062c039a8a&tenantId=6232b055-76b9-4c13-9b88-b562ae7db6fb) -->
- [Microsoft Team][404]

## COMP 190 Outline[^1]
### The content of this outline is subject to change, if it does you will be notified via Teams

Date            | Class Information                                                              | Homework             | Reading
----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|--------------
                | **Introduction to Linux**                                                      |                      |
Thurs 08/31/23      | C01 - Operating Systems, Docker and Linux               [ [Slides][s01] ]      | [HW01][hw01]         | [What is open source?](https://opensource.com/resources/what-open-source)
Thurs 09/07/23      | C02 - Linux Command Line Interface (CLI)                [ [Slides][s02] ]      | [HW02][hw02]         | [Everything You Should Know About Proprietary Software](https://www.brainspire.com/blog/what-you-should-know-about-proprietary-software-brainspire)
Thurs 09/14/23      | C03 - Linux Filters, Scripts and Pipes                  [ [Slides][s03] ]      | [HW03][hw03]         | [The False Debate Between Open and Closed in Tech](https://www.theverge.com/2016/3/16/11242266/walt-mossberg-open-vs-closed-software-apple-os-x-google-android)
Thurs 09/21/23      | C04 - Installing Software                               [ [Slides][s04] ]      | [HW04][hw04]         | [The Problem With Diversity in Computing](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2019/06/tech-computers-are-bigger-problem-diversity/592456/)
Thurs 09/28/23      | C05 - Docker: Dockerfiles and Images                    [ [Slides][s05] ]      | [HW05][hw05]         | [We Teach A.I. Systems Everything, Including Our Biases](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1152821)
                | **Open Source Projects and Structures**                                        |                      |
Thurs 10/05/23      | C06 - Intellectual Property and Software Licensing      [ [Slides][s06] ]      | [HW06][hw06]         | [Dealing With Bias in Artificial Intelligence](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1152822)
Thurs 10/12/23      | C07 - FOSS Project Structures                           [ [Slides][s07] ]      | [HW07][hw07]         | [Can we Make Our Robots Less Biased Than We Are?](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1176432)
                | *Spring Break*                                                                 |                      |
Thurs 10/19/23      | To Be Determined                                                               |                      |
Thurs 10/26/23      | C08 - FarmData2 & Issue Trackers (WiD)                  [ [Slides][s08] ]      | [HW08][hw08]         | [Mastodon issues 30-day ultimatum to Trump's social network](https://techcrunch.com/2021/10/29/mastodon-issues-30-day-ultimatum-to-trumps-social-network-over-misuse-of-its-code/)
                | **Open Source Tools and Collaboration**                                        |                      |
Thurs 11/02/23      | C09 - Communities and Collaboration                     [ [Slides][s09] ]      | [HW09][hw09]         | [Commercial Images Generating AI Raises Thorny Legal Issues](https://techcrunch.com/2022/07/22/commercial-image-generating-ai-raises-all-sorts-of-thorny-legal-issues/)
Thurs 11/09/23      | C10 - Upstreaming Contributions                         [ [Slides][s10] ]      | [HW10][hw10]         | [Risks posed by AI are real](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2022/aug/07/ai-eu-moves-to-beat-the-algorithms-that-ruin-lives)
Thurs 11/16/23      | C11 - Staying Synchronized                              [ [Slides][s11] ]      | [HW11][hw11]         | [Disinformation Researchers Raise Alarms about A.I. Chatbots](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1182164)
Thurs 11/23/23      | Thanksgiving - No class                                                        |                      | 
Thurs 11/30/23      | C12 - Resolving Merge Conflicts                         [ [Slides][s12] ]      | [HW12][hw12]         | 
                | **Navigating Code**                                                            |                      |
Thurs 12/07/23      | C13 - Navigating Code                                   [ [Slides][s13] ]      | [HW13][hw13]         |
|                                                                                                |                      |
Thurs 12/14/23    | **2:00pm Final Exam Slot**<br> No Exam - All work must be complete.            |                      |


[s01]: materials/01-S-OSandLinux.pptx
[hw01]: materials/01-A-OSandLinux.docx
[s02]: materials/02-S-LinuxCLI.pptx
[hw02]: materials/02-A-LinuxCLI.docx
[s03]: materials/03-S-FiltersScriptsPipes.pptx
[hw03]: materials/03-A-FiltersScriptsPipes.docx
[s04]: materials/04-S-InstallingSoftware.pptx
[hw04]: materials/04-A-InstallingSoftware.docx
[s05]: materials/05-S-Docker.pptx
[hw05]: materials/05-A-Docker.docx
[s06]: materials/06-S-LicensingFOSS.pptx
[hw06]: materials/06-A-LicensingFOSS.docx
[s07]: materials/07-S-ProjectStructures.pptx
[hw07]: materials/07-A-ProjectStructures.docx
[s08]: materials/08-S-IssueTracker.pptx
[hw08]: materials/08-A-IssueTracker.docx

[s09]: materials/09-S-CommunityAndCollaboration.pptx
[hw09]: materials/09-A-CommunityAndCollaboration.docx
[s10]: materials/10-S-WorkingLocallyAndUpstreaming.pptx
[hw10]: materials/10-A-WorkingLocallyAndUpstreaming.docx
[s11]: materials/11-S-StayingSynchronized.pptx
[hw11]: materials/11-A-StayingSynchronized.docx
[s12]: materials/12-S-MergeConflicts.pptx
[hw12]: materials/12-A-MergeConflicts.docx
[s13]: materials/13-S-NavigatingCode.pptx
[hw13]: materials/13-A-NavigatingCode.docx

[404]: 404.md

<!--
<!--[Why the Constitution Can Protect Passwords But Not Fingerprint Scans](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1152825) -->
<!--[How the Supreme Court Could Rewrite the Rules for DNA Searches](https://lms.dickinson.edu/mod/resource/view.php?id=1152826) -->
<!---->
---

[^1]: These slides and assignments are originally the work of Prof. Braught and they have been adapted to our course.

![Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/88x31.png "Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License") All textual materials used in this course are licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/)

![GPL V3 or Later](https://www.gnu.org/graphics/gplv3-or-later-sm.png "GPL V3 or later") All executable code used in this course is licensed under the [GNU General Public License Version 3 or later](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt)
